theoretic notions of security (in the case of encryption, both these relaxations are necessary in order to go beyond the limitations of perfect secrecy discussed in the previous chapter):

1. Security is only guaranteed against efficient adversaries that run for some feasible amount of time. This means that given enough time (or sufficient computational resources) an attacker may be able to violate security. If we can make the resources required to break the scheme larger than those available to any realistic attacker, then for all practical purposes the scheme is unbreakable.

2. Adversaries can potentially succeed (i.e., security can potentially fail) with some very small probability. If we can make this probability sufficiently small, we need not worry about it.

To obtain a meaningful theory, we need to precisely define the above relaxations. There are two general approaches for doing so: the concrete approach and the asymptotic approach. These are described next.

3.1.1 The Concrete Approach
The concrete approach to computational security quantifies the security of a cryptographic scheme by explicitly bounding the maximum success probability of any (randomized) adversary running for some specified amount of time or, more precisely, investing some specific amount of computational effort.

Thus, a concrete definition of security takes roughly the following form:
A scheme is (t, e)-secure if any adversary running for time at most t succeeds in breaking the scheme with probability at most e.

(Of course, the above serves only as a general template, and for the above statement to make sense we need to define exactly what it means to "break" the scheme in question.) As an example, one might have a scheme with the guarantee that no adversary running for at most 200 years using the fastest available supercomputer can succeed in breaking the scheme with probability better than 2^-60. Or, it may be more convenient to measure running time in terms of CPU cycles, and to construct a scheme such that no adversary using at most 2^80 cycles can break the scheme with probability better than 2^-60.

It is instructive to get a feel for the large values of t and the small values of e that are typical of modern cryptographic schemes.

Example 3.1
Modern private-key encryption schemes are generally assumed to give almost optimal security in the following sense: when the key has length n—and so the key space has size 2^n—an adversary running for time t (measured in, say, computer cycles) succeeds in breaking the scheme with probability at most ct/2^n for some fixed constant c. (This simply corresponds to a brute-force search of the key space, and assumes no preprocessing has been done.)

Assuming c = 1 for simplicity, a key of length n = 60 provides adequate security against an adversary using a desktop computer. Indeed, on a 4 GHz processor (that executes 4 * 10^9 cycles per second) 2^60 CPU cycles require 2^60/(4*10^9) seconds, or about 9 years. However, the fastest supercomputer at the time of this writing can execute roughly 2 * 10^16 floating point operations per second, and 2^60 such operations require only about 1 minute on such a machine. Taking n = 80 would be a more prudent choice; even the computer just mentioned would take about 2 years to carry out 2^80 operations.

Today, however, a recommended key length might be n = 128. The difference between 2^80 and 2^128 is a multiplicative factor of 2^48. To get a feeling for how big this is, note that according to physicists' estimates the number of seconds since the Big Bang is on the order of 2^58.

If the probability that an attacker can successfully recover an encrypted message in one year is at most 2^-60, then it is much more likely that the sender and receiver will both be hit by lightning in that same period of time. An event that occurs once every hundred years can be roughly estimated to occur with probability 2^-30 in any given second. Something that occurs with probability 2^-60 in any given second is 2^30 times less likely, and might be expected to occur roughly once every 100 billion years.

The concrete approach is important in practice, since concrete guarantees are what users of a cryptographic scheme are ultimately interested in. However, precise concrete guarantees are difficult to provide. Furthermore, one must be careful in interpreting concrete security claims. For example, a claim that no adversary running for 5 years can break a given scheme with probability better than e begs the questions: what type of computing power (e.g., desktop PC, supercomputer, network of hundreds of computers) does this assume? Does this take into account future advances in computing power (which, by Moore's Law, roughly doubles every 18 months)? Does the estimate assume the use of "off-the-shelf" algorithms, or dedicated software implementations optimized for the attack? Furthermore, such a guarantee says little about the success probability of an adversary running for 2 years (other than the fact that it can be at most e) and says nothing about the success probability of an adversary running for 10 years.
EOF
